A/V Accessibility Research Project
Authoring 4 - Media for Everyone


Assignment Description
Create and deploy a fully accessible Node/Express media application using two pieces of
multimedia (1 audio file, 1 video file).
Research best practices for audio, video, and special needs. What is the best option for each?
What considerations should you make for delivery and implementation? What are the technical
requirements?

Note: YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE for defining your project deliverables in terms of accessibility
enhancements. In other words - I am not giving you a list of things to add. YOU are, based on
your research.

There are a number of standard accessibility “pieces” that you should add for both audio and
video. The following link is a great resource:
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility
There is also an accessibilities course on LinkedIn - use that to guide your development and
implementation efforts. Search for UX Foundations: Accessibility
RE grading - I’m looking for standard features to be developed and included, based on the
resources I’m supplying (and your other research). As an example - size, visual contrast,
tabbing, Aria attributes, screen readers, closed captioning, transcripts etc are all expected to be implemented (or a reasonable combination of these features).

An important note - there are lots of 3rd party solutions out there for accessibility. The goal is to understand the requirements and find or create solutions that address or meet those
requirements. You are free to use anything you can find to help you finish the assignment,
as long as it meets those requirements.
You will need to design a basic, accessible interface to allow your user to navigate your app.
You’ll also need a couple of pages that display your audio and video assets with multimedia
controls - this is a proof-of-concept project, so branding can be minimal. The objective is to learn how to make multimedia accessible for everyone - functionality comes first.


Use routing with Node and Express to separate your audio and video presentations / pages.
Use one route for video, and render the appropriate assets. Do the same for your audio
implementation.
Each media selection must be delivered with one goal in mind: any user, regardless of
accessibility challenges, should be able to enjoy any type of media in any application.
Include a design / development document with your submission as your roadmap.


Submission
Homework must be submitted by midnight of the Saturday of Week 11 (March 25). Include the
following:
● Github repo: master branch with any other dev branches you feel you need
● Research document (Google Drive doc)
Name the dev branches appropriately per feature: des.tvr.audio, des.tvr.video,
dev.tvr.accessibility
Please follow correct folder and file structure as outlined in class